*This is the user documentation for the Inception application. If you're a developper, look at DEV_DOC.md*

# Services

The app consists of the following services:

## NGINX instance

The HTTPS entrypoint that allows access to both a Wordpress website and a static blog holding my resume. Traffic is only allowed through port 443 using HTTPS.

## Wordpress instance

The Wordpress service runs the PHP FastCGI Process Manager to generate the content of the Wordress website.

## MariaDB instance

This service holds all the data the Wordpress service needs to fetch to generate the web pages (users, pages, comments, etc)

## Redis cache

A caching service is implemented between the database and the Wordpress service. It allows the most common DB queries to be stored in memory to speed up the generation of the most common assets.

## Adminer panel

Use mturgeon.42.fr/adminer.php to manage your database through a clean GUI instead of the command line interface in the docker container.

## Mariadb Backup service

This will backup the DB according to the following policy:
- At container build, a full backup is made.
- Everyday at 2am, an incremental backup is made (modifying the content of the full backup copy with what has changed since)
The backup can be found in the "mariadb-backup-volume" backup volume.

## A FTP server

Use this service on port 21 to upload or download files to the Wordpress website.

## Static resume website

This website is generated by a container at buildtime running a Static Site Generator (SSG). It then writes the static files in a volume that is shared with the NGINX container so they can be served. Once built successfully, the service stops. If the website is updated, pausing NGINX and starting this container again updates the site

# Usage

## Environmment variables and secrets

Before launching the app, copy your .env file and your secrets folder at the root of the repository. See "Credentials Management" below for more information

## Starting the service

Use "make upd" to launch the service in the background. You should wait around 2min the first time or after volume wipe, around 1min after simple shutdown. Use "make check" to monitor the status of the services. 7 of them should display the status "Running" while "zola_website" should be on "exited" (see "Static resume website").

## Websites usage (Wordpress and static)

The domain names for the websites are **mturgeon.42.fr** and **blog.mturgeon.ch** for the Wordpress site and the static site respectively. The first time you visit the websites, since the certificates are self-signed, the browser will prompt you to refuse the connection because it is not secure. Under "Advanced Option", click on "Advance Anyway". You can check the validity of the certificate this way:
- Click on the lock next to the URL/search bar --> "Connection is not secured" --> "More information"
- This page shows the SSL certificate as well as the TLS protocol used

To reach the admin page, add /wp-admin to the Wordpress domain. For the Adminer panel, add /adminer.php.

## Stopping the service

"make down" stops the containers. "make vdown" resets the app and wipes all the data. Subsequent starts will be longer.

# Administration

The Wordpress website needs to be managed from the wp-admin page, logged in as an administrator. Adminer needs your database admin user login (not root). You can also manage the database by logging in the MariaDB administrator on the container by running this command:
- docker compose exec mariadb mariadb -u"$MARIA_DB_USER" -p"(cat path/to/secret/file/in/host)

# Credentials management

**/!\ WARNING /!\ PLEASE DO NOT EXPOSE YOUR SECRETS OR .ENV FILE OUTSIDE OF YOUR LOCAL MACHINE**
Thank you.

The secrets below hold the passwords for their respective services. The names are verbose. They should be one line without whitespaces or newline. If one of them is missing, empty or if the grammar is incorrect, the service might fail unexpectedly. Here is the list of files to provide. Store them in a folder called "secrets" at the root of the repository.
- ../secrets/db_password.txt
- ../secrets/db_root_password.txt
- ../secrets/db_backup_password.txt
- ../secrets/wp_admin_password.txt
- ../secrets/ssl_key.pem
- ../secrets/wp_user_password.txt
- ../secrets/ftp_password.txt

the .env_example file provided needs to be filed with your informations and renamed to .env.

# Service healthcheck

"make check" displays the status of the containers